.TH LOGTAIL 8 "28 Jul 2007" "Debian" "logtail2 manual"
.SH NAME
logtail2 \- print log file lines that have not been read
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B logtail2
.RI [-t]
.BI \-f logfile
.RI [\-o offsetfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B logtail2
reads a specified file (usually a log file) and writes
to the standard output that part of it
which has not been read by previous runs of
.BR logtail2 .
It prints the appropriate number of bytes from the end of
.IR logfile ,
assuming that all changes that are made to it are to add new
characters to it. 
.P
.I logfile
must be a plain file.  A symlink is not allowed.
.P
.B logtail2
stores the information about how much of it has already been read
in a separate file called
.IR offsetfile .
.I offsetfile
can be omitted.  If omitted, the file named
.I logfile.offset
in the same directory which contains
.I logfile
is used by default.
.P
If
.I offsetfile
is not empty, the inode of
.I logfile
is checked.  If the inode is changed,
.B logtail2
uses the heuristics stored in
.I /usr/share/logtail2/detectrotate/
to find a file that might be the rotated
.I logfile
and prints it starting with the stored offset. It then proceeds to
simply print the entire new
.I file
and generates a new
.I offsetfile.
If the inode is not changed but
.I logfile
is shorter than it was at the last run of
.BR logtail2 ,
it writes a warning message to the standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
.I logfile 
to be read after offset
.TP
.B \-o
.I offsetfile 
stores offset of previous run
.TP
.B \-t
test mode - do not change offset in
.I offsetfile
.SH RETURN VALUES
.IP 0
successful
.IP 65
cannot get the size of
.IR logfile
.IP 66
general file or directory access issue
.IP 73
cannot write
.I offsetfile
.SH AUTHOR
The original
.B logtail
was written in C by Craig H. Rowland <crowland@psionic.com>.
This version of
.B logtail
is a modification of Paul Slootman's re-implementation in perl.
enhanced by the Debian Logcheck Team <logcheck-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>.
.P
This manual was written by Oohara Yuuma <oohara@libra.interq.or.jp>
and enhanced by the Debian Logcheck Team
<logcheck-devel@lists.alioth.debian.org>..
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR logcheck (8)
